# 6.7. Databricks

Databricks is not covered in this course - as this course has been written to be vendor/platform agnostic to be relevant to as many analysts as possible. However it is worth mentioning as it the easiest way for pricing teams to put code into production.

Databricks is an all-in-one data engineering and data science platform, it is cloud based and accessible through a web browser.

Databricks has everything needed to adopt modern analytical practices, and makes setting up clusters, version control (for code, data and models), and scheduling code easy.

Although designed for use with very large data (much bigger than insurance pricing data), the value from Databricks comes from simplifying the process of productionising code for analytics, this can save large amounts of analyst time. 

## Is Databricks expensive?

Databricks can be pricey if not mindful, but can be run very cheaply for insurance pricing if developed with this mind. 

In general for compute the total cost to use Databricks with Azure compute is about 2x the cost of Azure compute alone.

If processing data incrementally (the latest data, not the whole set) and developing with small clusters, the cost of using Databricks can be very cheap. 

## The downside of Databricks

One of the main drawbacks is that Databricks is designed to use Spark (a Dataframe library for running code on a cluster of machines) with very large datasets, which carries a lot of overhead, and is overkill for the small size of insurance data. 

It is possible to use libraries such as Polars, but this isn't quite a smooth integration yet and some Databricks features are lost, and so for now it is best to use Spark. 

Ultimately this means when using spark that simple code on small data takes a lot longer than it would do with Polars on your local machine.

## Databricks consultancy

Pricing Frontier does specialise in Databricks consultancy as we believe it is generally the best tool for Pricing teams looking to modernise their way of working. For more information, please get in touch.